New Documentation (#27)
terramate-io/terramate-docs: concepts/orchestration.md

---
title: Orchestration | Terramate Concepts
description: Learn how orchestration in Terramate can be used to execute single commands or workflows in stacks.
---

# Orchestration

In this section, we will cover orchestration as a core concept in Terramate.

## Introduction

Orchestration allows the execution of commands such as `terraform apply` or `tofu plan` in stacks.

## Commands and workflows

Currently, two ways of orchestrating commands exist:

> - Executing a single command such as `terraform apply` with the `terramate run` command, e.g. `terramate run -- terraform apply`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Executing a single command such as `terraform apply` with the `terramate run` command, e.g., `terramate run -- terraform apply`.
```

> - Executing a sequence of commands combined as workflow using Terramate scripts with the `terrmate run script` command, e.g. `terramate script run terraform deploy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Executing a sequence of commands combined as workflow using Terramate scripts with the `terramate script run` command, e.g., `terramate script run terraform deploy`.
```

## Sequential and parallel execution

> Per default, commands and workflows are executed in stacks sequentially but can be executed [in parallel](../cli/orchestration/parallel-execution.md) also.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, commands and workflows run sequentially in stacks but can also run in [parallel](../cli/orchestration/parallel-execution.md).
```

## Dependency graph

> Terramate can be used to invoke commands and workflows on a single stack or a DAG "directed acyclic graph" of stacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terramate can invoke commands and workflows on a single stack or a directed acyclic graph (DAG) of stacks.
```

> This graph models the dependency relations between the stacks. The run order is then based on a
> [topological ordering](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Topological_sorting) of the nodes, which can be optionally filtered
> using change detection or tag filter. Additionally, the order of execution can be reversed also, which is useful when
> running commands such as `terraform destroy` on a graph of dependent stacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The graph depicts the dependency relations between the stacks. The run order follows a [topological ordering](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Topological_sorting) of the nodes, which can be filtered using change detection or tag filters. Furthermore, the execution order can also be reversed, which is beneficial when running commands like `terraform destroy` on a graph of dependent stacks.
```
